docs: Add PR review guidelines wiki link to CONTRIBUTING (#14314)
Esri/calcite-components: CONTRIBUTING.md

## Pull requests

Pull requests should follow conventional commits and will be validated by the [Semantic Pull Request](https://github.com/amannn/action-semantic-pull-request) check before merging.

> You can update the PR title at any time prior to merging. This is useful if the scope or type changes, or if additional clarity is needed for the changelog.

Reviewer: [nit] Can probably keep `entry` here as it is a tad more accurate/explicit.
```suggestion
You can update the PR title at any time prior to merging. This is useful if the scope or type changes, or if additional clarity is needed for the changelog entry.
```

Author: Resolved in this commit: [Feedback changes: IB](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/bace4356b932d6abc2eb3ee3c1459675a69dc452)

By default, the PR body is used as the commit message when squash merging, so include any relevant details there.

> ### Types of PR reviews and suggested workflows

Reviewer 2: There's a lot of nested bullet points in this section. WDYT about making the highest level into `h4`s instead of a bullet point? I think this would increase scanability.

Author: Resolved as a part of this commit: [Feedback changes - MD](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/a1b5de65b4532a10a86e2962c71091f079370b65)

> ### Types of PR reviews and suggested workflows

Reviewer 3: I’d like to avoid duplicating this info and, IMO, it feels a bit out of place in a contributing doc.

Another reason this lives in the wiki is to keep the barrier to updates low. Changes there can be made quickly without going through a review step. There are tradeoffs either way, but the goal here was to avoid updates getting skipped because of that extra friction.

Reviewer 2: Could we link to the wiki here?

Author: @jcfranco So the original ask of the related issue was to relocate this info somewhere in the rep so that folks could reference it easier. Now that was a while ago and back then this info lived in the confluence, but got moved to the wiki. 

When I saw that it got moved to the wiki I was about to close the issue as not needed but Isaac brought up a good point in a comment on the issue that we could have the copilot instructions reference the PR guidelines instead of the minimal context it currently has. 

@DintaMel Unfortunately, the instructions wont utilize external links, so I thought we could copy the info to the contributing so that Copilot could get the context as well. 

I agree with keeping the barrier to updates low but I don't think it feels out of place, I feel like anyone that would be contributing would likely want/need to have a better idea of the PR process. 

That being said, if we do prefer to keep it on the wiki, just LMK and I can remove it.🧹

Reviewer: If the biggest win from having it in the repo is to reference it in Copilot instructions, it may not need to be moved since Copilot really only benefits from the formatting/type of PR comments. I personally prefer accessing docs in the repo, but can seem Franco's point that the CONTRIBUTING doc may not be the best place. Maybe another or a new file would be better.

That being said, I think it would be okay to keep in the wiki (with the review edits made from this PR review 😄), but 100% should have it linked from the CONTRIBUTING doc. One of our big issues with doc is that things live in multiple places, without much reference between them.

- Automated dependency updates -- these are typically straightforward
  and only require approval before merging.

>   - if a check is failing

Reviewer: Should all of these sub-items start with a capital letter?
```suggestion
  - If a check is failing
```

Author: Resolved in this commit: [Feedback changes: IB](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/bace4356b932d6abc2eb3ee3c1459675a69dc452)

Reviewer: Unresolving to ensure we decide if other items should start with capital letters.

Author: Not sure of the general consensus but I capitalized and restructured them in this commit: [Feedback changes - MD](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/a1b5de65b4532a10a86e2962c71091f079370b65)

    - if it's something impacted by your changes, please address the failure in order to help the PR move along
    - if it's something complicated, needs more time or is related to test instability, comment on the PR about any findings and bring this up in the core channel, where we will either
      - provide assistance or
      - get confirmation to create a follow-up issue
- Documentation updates
  - review and approve if everything looks good from an editorial perspective

>   - add the [`Esri/calcite-pes` team](https://github.com/orgs/Esri/teams/calcite-pes) to review and ensure doc tone consistency

Reviewer: May want to align on `add` vs. `assign` for PR reviewers.
```suggestion
  - Assign the [`Esri/calcite-pes` team](https://github.com/orgs/Esri/teams/calcite-pes) to review and ensure doc tone consistency
```

Author: Resolved in this commit: [Feedback changes: IB](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/bace4356b932d6abc2eb3ee3c1459675a69dc452)

- If there are visual changes associated with a PR
  - make sure to apply the `pr ready for screenshot tests` label
    - if there are additional visual changes since the last screenshot test run, this label will need to be removed then added again to schedule another test run

>   - assign add the [`Esri/calcite-designers` team](https://github.com/orgs/Esri/teams/calcite-designers) to review screenshot diffs, and optionally mention them to increase visibility (especially for design-driven updates)

Reviewer: Duplicate words
```suggestion
  - Assign the [`Esri/calcite-designers` team](https://github.com/orgs/Esri/teams/calcite-designers) to review screenshot diffs, and optionally mention them to increase visibility (especially for design-driven updates)
```

Author: Resolved in this commit: [Feedback changes: IB](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/bace4356b932d6abc2eb3ee3c1459675a69dc452)

>   - except for false-positives, please wait for review before accepting new or updated screenshots (for non–design-driven updates)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - wait for design review prior to accepting new or updated screenshot diffs. Obvious false positives can be accepted prior to design review.
```

Nit: I prefer having the rule in the first part of the sentence with the exception afterwards. I'm not sure what was meant by "for non–design-driven updates", so you may need to update the suggestion above if I didn't capture your intent.

- If a follow-up issue is needed during the PR review

>   - tag the [`Esri/calcite-pes`](https://github.com/orgs/Esri/teams/calcite-pes) group in a comment so a related issue can be created, estimated, and prioritized for an upcoming milestone

Reviewer 4: Question about this:

> We want to change the process of requesting PR reviews so that a group of everyone is not auto assigned as that results in reviews not getting done efficiently because people might think others will get to it.

If we didn't want to auto-assign groups, should we be telling contributors to use these groups? Seems like it would have the same problem, no?

Author: Auto assigning seems different to me, this is more of a who to include for certain aspects of a PR. It was already there in the wiki and made sense to keep to me.

  - provide context and details for the new issue(s) to better we prepare ourselves for future follow-up work
- If PR checks are failing unexpectedly
  - reach out in the [Core - General Teams channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3Ae82c6c80246d4e9f8eb7339e4d677b60%40thread.skype/Core%20-%20General?groupId=56fae21a-9407-4943-859f-a9bfcf0bbad3&tenantId=aee6e3c9-711e-4c7c-bd27-04f2307db20d&ngc=true) about this and cc [@jcfranco](https://github.com/jcfranco).

### Deprecation PRs

When a pull request is strictly intended to deprecate an existing feature or component, use the `deprecate` commit type. This type is reserved for noting changes under the "Deprecations" section of the changelog.

If deprecations are part of a broader change, such as introducing a new `feat` or making a `fix`, a `deprecate` entry can be added to the bottom of the PR body following the format described in the [release-please documentation](https://github.com/googleapis/release-please#what-if-my-pr-contains-multiple-fixes-or-features).

#### Example

```text
PR title:

> feat(avatar): add in an awesome new feature ✨

Reviewer 5: The section above is on deprecation, where the first example mentions the `feat` conventional commit with the broader change. Should an example with `deprecate` be added above it and/or should additional context on the example be provided, either with the section name and/or above the commit example?

For instance:

> #### Deprecation example with conventional commits
> 
> // Conventional commits that provide functionality in addition to deprecation
> PR title:
> feat(avatar): ....

Author: I don't think there needs to be an example with just deprecate (it's pretty straight forward), the example is only there to show the process of adding in a deprecation as a part of another PR so I think just updating the "Example" section title could clear things up.

Author: Edited section title in this commit: [Feedback changes - KH](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/fe82d96689de348ff9a1169de440855cb07f6fa6)

Description:

This PR adds in feature x which will make everything work flawlessly forever.

deprecate(avatar): deprecate old unnecessary property 🗑️
```

> ⚠️ Make sure to always add the `deprecate` entry at the bottom of the PR body as shown above.

Reviewer 2: Is this applicable for `deprecate` PRs too?

Author: I'm not sure what the question is asking here. 🤔

Reviewer 2: The example above is for a `feat` commit/PR type.

If the PR title begins with `deprecate`, do you still need to put the `deprecate` entry at the bottom? It's unclear to me whether this needs to be done for all PR types that include a deprecation or just PRs that include a deprecation and are not type `deprecate`.

Author: Ahh okay I see now, the section says the following:
 
 > When a pull request is strictly intended to deprecate an existing feature or component, use the `deprecate` commit type. This type is reserved for noting changes under the "Deprecations" section of the changelog.
> 
> If deprecations are part of a broader change, such as introducing a new `feat` or making a `fix`, a `deprecate` entry can be added to the bottom of the PR body following the format described in the [release-please documentation](https://github.com/googleapis/release-please#what-if-my-pr-contains-multiple-fixes-or-features).

I think the first sentence clarifies the when it should be used, but if you think the wording could be improved, we can definitely change it.

Reviewer 2: I think the paragraphs you mentioned make sense. It provides clear instructions on which workflow to use. 

Because the sentence above says "Make sure to always add the `deprecate` entry..." the messaging feels different from the referenced paragraphs. My vote is to remove the sentence above or clarify that it applies only to PR types that are not `deprecate`.

Author: Resolved as a part of this commit: [Feedback changes - MD](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/a1b5de65b4532a10a86e2962c71091f079370b65)

### Reviewing

- In addition to requesting a review on GitHub, the quickest way to get attention for your PR is to post a message in the [Core - Development Teams channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3A4f39d2df65734cf4a4a1843eea9aa040%40thread.skype/Core%20-%20Development?groupId=56fae21a-9407-4943-859f-a9bfcf0bbad3&tenantId=aee6e3c9-711e-4c7c-bd27-04f2307db20d&ngc=true).

> - Before starting a review on a **_non-draft_** PR (see [**Draft PRs**](#draft-prs) below), use the 👀 reaction to let others know the PR is being reviewed.

Reviewer 2: Should you use the reaction in Github too, or is this also referring to Teams? 

I also think this could be split into two bullet points: one that says "Generally, draft PRs are not meant for review. See below" and another about the eyes reaction.

Reviewer 4: > Should you use the reaction in Github too, or is this also referring to Teams?

I have asked myself this same question multiple times 😆.

Author: Yea it's for Teams

> - If the review was requested via a Teams message, make sure to use one of the following reactions to indicate status:

Reviewer 5: nitpick on direct guidance:

```suggestion
- If the review was requested via a Teams message, use one of the following reactions to indicate status:
```

Author: Resolved in this commit: [Feedback changes - KH](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/fe82d96689de348ff9a1169de440855cb07f6fa6)

  - ⁠👀 reviewing
  - ⁠✅ approved
  - ⁠🛑 changes requested
  - ⁠💬 commented

### Draft PRs

Draft PRs are intended for iteration and refinement before formal team review.

PRs in draft state should not be reviewed unless explicitly requested. This helps avoid spending time on code that is still evolving.

#### Author checklist before requesting review

> Before marking a PR as ready for review:

Reviewer 2: Can we add the `pr ready for screenshot tests` label here too?

Author: Resolved as a part of this commit: [Feedback changes - MD](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/a1b5de65b4532a10a86e2962c71091f079370b65)

- Run an initial review with GitHub Copilot to catch obvious issues or improvement opportunities
- Address relevant CI failures
- Ensure the PR description clearly explains intent and scope

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> Use your best judgment when reviewing Copilot comments. Some suggestions may not align with our tech stack, best practices, or conventions.

### Comments

When commenting, it is crucial to provide the (PR) author with the priority/context of each comment, e.g., what must be changed, what's a nice-to-have, etc.

Use the following syntax to shed light on the type of comment:

- `Nit`: minor adjustments that shouldn't prevent merging
- `Suggestion`: alternative approach that shouldn't prevent merging
- `Sidenote`: a relevant note that is not critical to the reviewed PR (should either stem a discussion or an issue/PR to follow-up)

> - `Typo`: address typographical errors (these should be fixed before merging)

Reviewer 5: Have we run these syntaxes past the team?

Author: I didn't even know that they existed as guidance 😄. They were already documented like this in the wiki before so I'm assuming folks are relatively aware as they seem to use these already (or maybe everyone else has already read these).

Be as specific as possible in your comments to offer reasoning and avoid misinterpretation.

If there is a lot of back-and-forth between the reviewer and author, reach out via chat or schedule a call to make sure everyone is on the same page. Once everything is resolved, make sure to summarize the discussion points and resolution in the PR before moving forward.

### Considerations

Focus on the following items while reviewing:

- Consistency (naming, patterns, etc.) 📚
- Adhering to guidelines 🤝📚

> - If applicable, improvements or alternatives to a solution

Reviewer 5: nitpick on wording order:

```suggestion
- Improvements or alternatives to a solution, if applicable
```

- Typos and grammar

> - PR title adheres to conventional commits.

Reviewer: [consistency] remove ending period. None of the other items here use them, besides the last which is two sentences 🫠
```suggestion
- PR title adheres to conventional commits
```

Author: Resolved in this commit: [Feedback changes: IB](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/bace4356b932d6abc2eb3ee3c1459675a69dc452)

- Ensure all files are relevant to the associated issue

> - Make sure to ask clarifying questions about changes if you don't understand something. This helps share the knowledge and can help identify information that might be useful to add as comments or rename variables/functions to make the code clearer.

Reviewer 5: Can this language be more direct? Also, I'm not sure what you mean by "code cleaner" at the end of this bullet point, is that a different bullet point needed in the list?

```suggestion
- Ask clarifying questions about changes if you don't understand something. This ensures knowledge sharing and helps identify information that might be useful to add as comments or rename variables/functions.
```

Author: Resolved in this commit: [Feedback changes - KH](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/fe82d96689de348ff9a1169de440855cb07f6fa6)

### Submitting

You can approve a review if there are a couple required changes, as long as they are straightforward. However, make sure to "request changes" if the changes require a second pass from you.

It's always better to be explicit and comment whether the PR is good to merge after making adjustments or if you'd like to be requested for another review once changes have been made.

> Getting extra pairs of eyes on reviews is always a good idea, but not necessary. If you'd like to get someone else to take a look, please mention them or add them as reviewers. Similarly, if you are unfamiliar with the changes, please call this out to give a better idea on whether additional reviewers may be needed. If you're unsure on who to contact, refer to the [Areas of Focus page](https://confluencewikidev.esri.com/display/Calcite/Areas+of+focus) for guidance.

Reviewer 5: Similar to above, could this language be more direct?

For instance:

> Be explicit in your recommendation of approval. Communicate if a PR is good to merge once comments are addressed or if a follow-up review request should be made prior to merging.

Author: Resolved in this commit: [Feedback changes - KH](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/pull/14314/commits/fe82d96689de348ff9a1169de440855cb07f6fa6)
